# Presentation

I have just completed my presentation today as I am writing
this document. The session went better than expected, and I'm
glad that one semester and 15 MC worth of work ended one a
high note.

I attribute my success to a few reasons: firstly, prepare
the presentation for a general audience and do not assume
everyone is a domain expert in your topic. Secondly,
rehearse in a pseudo session and lastly, use interaction
tools as much as possible.

Although the testers are experienced researchers, they might
not be familiar in the specific domain you are working on.
Even if they are familiar with the domain, they might not be
familiar with every aspect of the topic. My thesis was on
applying a more advanced neural network model on asset
pricing theory and one of the tester is proficient in
finance (asset pricing) while the other is proficient in
econometric methods (neural network). Therefore, it is
important to ensure the finance professor understands the
neural network while the econometric professor understands
the finance model in the paper.

My presentation was held over Zoom due to COVID situation. I
held multiple rehearsals with my friends over Zoom session
to ensure I'm comfortable navigating the digital
scripts and slides while looking presentable over the
webcam. Practice makes perfect. I find more confidence as I
have more rehearsals and during the actual presentation I
felt much more in control to handle any impromptu events.

During the actual presentation, I annotated and use the
pointer to direct the audience attention towards the diagram
and equations I'm referring to. I find the audience more
attentive as the level of interaction increases. The ability
to write directly on the presentation also helps me to
explain complicated concepts clearer during the question and
answering session. Therefore, I would strongly encourage you
to present with an interactive tool whenever possible.
