# Writing the thesis

I think writing the thesis content is one of the most tiring
part for me. The challenges include sourcing for all the
relevant literature, explaining the model and results in an
easy-to-understand format, and making sure you have included
as many relevant contents as possible.

I would strongly recommend you to start writing the content
as soon as possible. Do not wait till the whole model is
done and results are finalised before you start writing. One
semester went pass pretty quickly, and you want to save more
time restructuring the logical flow.

For literature review I find it helpful to first take a look
at the influential papers in different time period.
Understanding the literature development also helps to
understand the development in the field. When I'm finally
done with all the literature review, I find it interesting
to see how asset pricing has started from a standard linear
regression and a few factors to a much more complicated GAN
and autoencoder estimation today.

I would urge you to consider writing the thesis in R
markdown format. Writing in text based format such as LaTeX
combined with version control tools like Git and GitHub is
helpful when you want to track your changes, understand the
development of current paragraphs and most importantly,
allow you to redo infinite versions as long as you remember
to commit.
I used to write documents in pure LaTeX but
there are many limitations with that. For example, inserting
table, images, one-line equation and item list takes more
effort than it should. Therefore, writing R markdown is the
best of both world.

I have created a template LaTeX for R markdown. Please refer
to the `template` folder for the actual template file and
`thesis.Rmd` file to see how I structure the different
topics.
